Colocation maps are spatial network datasets, provided as part of Facebook Data for Good Disease Prevention Maps, that estimate how often people from different regions are colocated. In particular, these maps estimate, for each pair of regions x and y, the probability of a randomly chosen person from x and from y being colocated in the same place during a randomly chosen minute for a given week. Same place implies within the same level 16 Bing tile, which roughly corresponds to a 0.6 km by 0.6 km square, depending on the latitude.  

Estimating colocation is especially useful for epidemiological modeling of human-to-human disease transmission. Such modeling requires an understanding of *mixing patterns* , i.e. how often people would transmit a disease by coming into contact with other people. Colocation Maps can provide such an understanding, and directly inform *metapopulation models* of disease spread. In these models, epidemiologists consider various subpopulations representing different geographic regions, and the level of coupling between sub-populations depends on how often people from each region come into contact sufficient to transmit a disease. Epidemiologists often turn to commuting data (e.g., from the U.S. Census) to parametrize these couplings, but Colocation Maps can offer a better parametrization and one that can evolve temporally over, for example, the course of social distancing interventions implemented to limit disease spread.  

To create colocation maps, users are assigned to regions where they are consistently observed spending the night over the course of the week. After this division into administrative regions, any administrative region, and the associated users, that have less than ten users assigned is removed.
Once users have been assigned to regions, Facebook estimates how often users from two regions are colocated. For any user, Facebook may only have irregular and intermittent location updates, so it’s not possible to assert whether two users are colocated at precisely the same time. To resolve this, the week is divided into five minute bins of time. The definition of colocation is that two users are within the same level 16 Bing tile within the same five minute bin. Even with five minute binning, Facebook imputes the location of users between their location updates, whenever they are sufficiently infrequent. Utilizing a simple imputation strategy, Facebook asserts that a user remains stationary until halfway between location updates.  

*Adapted from: Facebook Data For Good. Disease Prevention Map Dataset Types, Colocation Maps. Accessed May 17th, 2020.*

This dashboard is a work in progress, to record a problem with the dashboard or the underlying data, please [create an issue](https://github.com/hamishgibbs/colocation_dashboard/issues/new).